
1-What is Caching? How can you save money with Caching?
ans-Caching is a technique that stores copies of files in a cache, a temporary storage location,it just below the CPU, so that the files can be access more quickly. This results in significantly faster load times, but also decreases the load on the server.

2-What is load balancing?
ANS-Load balancing is the process of distributing network traffic across multiple servers. This ensures no single server bears too much demand. By spreading the work evenly, load balancing improves application responsiveness. It also increases availability of applications and websites for users

3-What is CAP Theorem?
ans-consistency, availability and partition tolerance,
The CAP theorem (also called Brewer’s theorem) states that a distributed database system can only guarantee two out of these three characteristics: Consistency, Availability, and Partition Tolerance.

4-What is PACELC Theorem?
ans-

5-What is Eventual Consistency?
ans-

6-What is Strong Consistency?
ans

6.1-What are the different types of databases?
ans-Centralised database.
Distributed database.
Personal database.
End-user database.
Commercial database.
NoSQL database.
Operational database.
Relational database.



7-What are message queues?
ans-message queues are message box between Producer and consumer(worker),let think there are lot of command give by user to server this all command went to server through Message Queue.

8-Which service by Amazon Web Services (AWS) can you use for Queues?
ans-Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)


9-What is Pub Sub ?
ans-Publish/subscribe messaging


10-What are webhooks?
ans-

11-What is Docker?
ans-Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. The service has both free and premium tiers. The software that hosts the containers is called Docker Engine example-github,aws,heroku,api saver,mongo db

12-What is S3 Service in AWS?
ans-Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance.

13-What is EC2 Instance in AWS?
ans-Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute platform, with over 500 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help you best match the needs of your workload.
Example-Like i have a app flipkar in normal day there ere less coustomer and near diwali 20-50x customer increase for that i need server,RAM,storage any many more thing just just for few days,this all things provided by  EC2 AWS

14-What is Cloudfront in AWS?
ans-Amazon CloudFront is a web service that speeds up distribution of your static and dynamic web content, such as .html, .css, .js, and image files, to your users

15-What is Route 53 In AWS?
ans-Route 553 is a AWS DNS service provider,It work with outher AWS tools which make it faster,it also work with non AWS services 


16-What are ELBs in AWS?
ns-Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple targets and virtual appliances in one or more Availability Zones (AZs)

17-What is TLS?
ans-Transport Layer Security is a cryptographic protocol designed to provide communications security over a computer network. The protocol is widely used in applications such as email, instant messaging, and voice over IP, but its use in securing HTTPS remains the most publicly visible

18-What is the difference between https and http?
ans-HTTPS is HTTP with encryption. The only difference between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses. As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, while a website that uses HTTPS has https://

19-What is a proxy?
ans-In computer networking, a proxy server is a server application that acts as an intermediary between a client requesting a resource and the server providing that resource

20-What is a reverse proxy?
ans-In computer networks, a reverse proxy is the application that sits in front of back-end applications and forwards client requests to those applications. Reverse proxies help increase scalability, performance,


21-What is Express.js?
ans-Express.js is a Node js web application server framework, which is specifically designed for building single-page, multi-page, and hybrid web applications.
It has become the standard server framework for node.js. Express is the backend part of something known as the MEAN stack.

1) MongoDB – The standard NoSQL database
2) Express.js – The default web applications framework
3) Angular.js – The JavaScript MVC framework used for web applications
4) Node.js – Framework used for scalable server-side and networking applications.

22-What are Routes?
ans-Routing determine the way in which an application responds to a client request to a particular endpoint.

23-What are Node.js?
-Node.js was created in 2009 by Ryan Dahl.
ans-Node.js is an open-source and cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment. It is a popular tool for almost any kind of project!
-It is used for server-side programming, and primarily deployed for non-blocking, event-driven servers, 
 -Node.js runs the V8 JavaScript engine,  outside of the browser. This allows Node.js to be very performant

24-What is JavaScript?
JavaScript is the programming language that underpins Node.js. It is a high-level language characterized by ‘curly bracket’ syntax, dynamic typing, prototype-based object orientations and first class functions.

These features mean JavaScript can convert a static webpage to an interactive one, adding features such as search boxes, embedded videos or news feed refresh tools. These are features that aim to improve user experience by encouraging intuitive engagement














